---
date: 2022-06-06T17:09:20+01:00
updated: 2022-06-06T17:21:10+01:00
title: Space to think
layout: post
description: An exploration of how to create space in work
---

Sometime before the start of the millennium tech companies decided that open plan offices were the future. However, It is well documented at this point that's traditional individual offices are much more productive.

This doesn't just apply to office organisation. Agile software development attempts to maximise resources by breaking down work into small chunks and then trying to rush through them in in sprints.

There are in fact many areas of life where are increased space in a way that appears inefficient in fact leads to superior solutions. For example simply being idle taking up your time in other pursuits turns out to be surprisingly efficient in the long run.

For all our chattering busy work, true insight only comes rarely. The ideas that change the world for the better are carefully designed.

Philosophers and solitude:
https://academic.oup.com/hwj/article/doi/10.1093/hwj/dbz048/5714185

"Solitude and reflection are necessary to give to wishes the force of passions."
https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/8764370-solitude-and-reflection-are-necessary-to-give-to-wishes-the

New media is a similarly instructive case study about 5 years ago there was a lot of buzz about the idea of slow news. People had realised that modern social media and the always online nature of modern life had made it difficult for people to focus on any one topic for any period of time. This was clearly leading to 20 quick shallow takes of modern events without deep analysis. Slough news attempts to address this by covering news stories that may not be by in the current conversation but with depth and space to fully explore the topic. I haven't heard anything about slow news for a number of years and if anything things have only got worse.

Our age prioritises "productivity" above all. But such careless creation can easily

Western Culture is “…losing sight of the toll speed takes” and that the Slow Movement has proven that “…by slowing down at the right moments, people do everything better.”

"I know I am not alone in my hectic everyday life because I see evidence of it everywhere."
https://www.structuremag.org/?p=8527

He talks about how speed is bad for engineering because they might make mistakes, become less accurate. This is true, but for development I think it has more of an implant on creativity.

But this is not about burnout, or correctness.
